Types of sorting algorithms:
1.Selection Sort
2.Bubble sort
3.Insertion Sort
4.Merge Sort
5.Quick Sort
6.Heap sort
7.and tooo binary search!!!


selection sort:
*largest element is selected and swapped with the last element(in case of ascending order).
*fast compared to bubble sort
*Repeatedly finding the minimum element and swapping.
defintion:It basically determines the minimum (or maximum) of the list and swaps it with the element at the index where its supposed to be. 
	The process is repeated such that the nth minimum (or maximum) element is swapped with the element at the n-1th index of the list.
	The below is an implementation of the algorithm in C.



Bubble sort:
*adjacent element is compard and swapped
*slow compared to selection sort
*exchanging the data(highest)
*Swapping the adjacent elements
definition:Bubble Sort works by comparing each element of the list with the element next to it and swapping them if required. 
	With each pass, the largest of the list is “bubbled” to the end of the list whereas the smaller values sink to the bottom. 
	It is similar to selection sort although not as straight forward.
 	Instead of “selecting” maximum values, they are bubbled to a part of the list. An implementation in C.


Insertion Sort:
Shift elements one by one
definition:try recalling how you sort a deck of cards. You start from the beginning, traverse through the cards and as you find cards misplaced by 
	precedence you remove them(like making space/here we call it hole/) and insert them back into the right position. 	
	Eventually what you have is a sorted deck of cards. The same idea is applied in the Insertion Sort algorithm. The following is an implementation in C.



Merge Sort:
Divide and Conquer algorithm or Merge two array
definition:Merge sort is a recursive algorithm that continually splits a array in equal two halves.
	If the array is empty or has one item, it is sorted by definition (the base case). If the array has more than one item,
 	we split array and recursively invoke a merge sort on both halves. Once the two halves are sorted, the fundamental operation, called a merge, is performed.
	Merging is the process of taking two smaller sorted array and combining them together into a single, sorted, new array.




Quick Sort:
Divide and Conquer algorithm or Partitioning array
definition:
1)Choose any element as pivot(here i chose last) element from the array list.

2)Partitioning the array so that all the elements with value less than the pivot will come before the pivot and the element with value greater 
will come after the pivot with in the same array,which make pivot element in the sorted position.(If the reverse the order we are reversing the sorting order that is descending).

3)Apply recursively the 3rd step to the sub array of the element with smaller values and separate the sub array of the elements 
with the greater values until partition of array containing 2 elements.



Heap sort:
The heap sort can be defined as the sorting algorithm that works by searching the maximum element in the list and place it to the last. 
The algorithm performs the action recursively until the array gets sorted into the ascending way.
It is very time taking the process to choose the maximum value and move it to the last and 
hence it is considered as a less efficient sorting approach when it comes to sorting the large list. However,
it works fine with the list that has a limited number of values.
Below is the implementation of this algorithm in the C programming language together with the output. 

alt-The working of this algorithm is the same as that of other sorting algorithms as it also sorts the list in ascending order. 
When the above-written code runs, the user has to submit the count of values that they will be sorting. Once the values are submitted,
the code will process them in order to turn the array into the sorted one. 
The output will be shown eventually and it can be observed that the values that have been submitted by the user has sorted in ascending order.






